
- For creating new maven project : 
	mvn archetype:generate -DgroupId=com.mycompany.app -DartifactId=my-app -DarchetypeArtifactId=maven-archetype-quickstart -DinteractiveMode=false

-What is Tomcat and why did it come into the picture?
=> 
-How to install Tomcat in Eclipse?
-Types of servers.
-About WAR and Web Container.
-Start and Stop Apache Tomcat Server by commands
-Different status codes 403 and 404
-Types of Logs in Apache Tomcat
-Catalina and configuration files
-Benefits of running Tomcat as Web Service
-Connectors and its use.
-Different roles and user's id password
	admin
	manager 
	provider
	
-Not IMP: how to check tomcat logs constantly (streaming) with any tool?(PowerShell).
	get-content .\localhost_access.out -tail 50 -wait



- life cycle of maven : 

	prepare-resources		Resource copying can be customized in this phase.
	validate				the information	Validates if the project is correct and if all necessary information is available.
	compile					Source code compilation is done in this phase.
	Test					Tests the compiled source code suitable for testing framework.
	package					This phase creates the JAR/WAR package as mentioned in the packaging in POM.xml.
	install					This phase installs the package in local/remote maven repository.
	Deploy					Copies the final package to the remote repository.

- what is maven artifact :
	An artifact is a file, usually a JAR, that gets deployed to a Maven repository. 
	A Maven build produces one or more artifacts, such as a compiled JAR and a "sources" JAR.

 
- what is maven repository?types?
	1.Local repository
	2.Central repository
	3.Remote repository

	Local Repository: Local repository is a directory on the developer's device.
		The local repository contains all of Maven's dependencies. 
		Even though several projects rely on dependencies, Maven only needs to download them once.
		
	Central Repository: The Maven community has built the central Maven repository.
		Maven searches this central repository for any dependencies that aren't available in your local repository. 
		The dependencies are subsequently downloaded into your local repository by Maven.
	
	Remote Repository: Maven may download dependencies from a remote repository hosted on a web server. 
		It is frequently used to host internal organization projects.
		The dependencies are subsequently downloaded into your local repository by Maven.
		
		
		
- use of different maven plugins   ||  maven phases    ||  maven Goals : 
	Build Plugins
	Reporting Plugins
	
	clean	clean up after build.
	compiler	compiles java source code.
	deploy	deploys the artifact to the remote repository.
	failsafe	runs the JUnit integration tests in an isolated classloader.
	install	installs the built artifact into the local repository.
	resources	copies the resources to the output directory for including in the JAR.
	site	generates a site for the current project.
	surefire	runs the JUnit unit tests in an isolated classloader.
	verifier	verifies the existence of certain conditions. It is useful for integration tests.

- list out scopes in maven >i.e : test,compile,run
	1. Compile Scope
	2. Provided Scope
	3. Runtime Scope
	4. Test Scope
	5. System Scope
	6. Import Scope
	7. Transitivity Resolution
- how we can exclude dependency which is unwanted : 
	We can have multiple transitive dependencies can be excluded by using the <exclusion> tag for each
	of the dependencies we want to exclude and placing all these exclusion tags inside the <exclusions> tag in pom.xml.
	
	
	<exclusions>
      <exclusion>
         <groupId>Here we give project groupid </groupId>
         <artifactId>Here we give project artifactid </artifactId>
      </exclusion>
   </exclusions>

- difference between Apache Ant and Maven?

Ant doesn't has formal conventions, so we need to provide information of the project structure in build.xml file.	
Maven has a convention to place source code, compiled code etc. So we don't need to provide information about the project structure in pom.xml file.

Ant is procedural, you need to provide information about what to do and when to do through code. You need to provide order.	
Maven is declarative, everything you define in the pom.xml file.

There is no life cycle in Ant.	
There is life cycle in Maven.

It is a tool box.	
It is a framework.

It is mainly a build tool.	
It is mainly a project management tool.

The ant scripts are not reusable.	
The maven plugins are reusable.

It is less preferred than Maven.	
It is more preferred than Ant.

hello pradip i want to add something 